W-20792402-feedbackCLUSTERING-dm (#3241)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/mule-high-availability-ha-clusters.adoc

Resource-based connectors read data from a resource that allows multiple concurrent accessors, but doesn't natively coordinate their use of the resource. Examples of resource-based connectors include File, FTP, SFTP, E-mail, and JDBC.

Resource-based connectors are supported in clusters in these ways:

* Mule HA Clustering automatically coordinates access to each resource only for nodes within the cluster, ensuring that only one clustered instance accesses each resource at a time. Because of this, it is generally a good idea to immediately write messages read from a resource-based connector to VM queues. This allows the other cluster nodes to take part in processing the messages.
+
[NOTE]
====
If you run other applications (either Mule applications outside the cluster or non-Mule applications) that access the same resources as the nodes in the cluster, you must implement logic to lock those resources.

> For example, if multiple programs process files in the same shared directory by reading, modifying, and then deleting them, these programs must use an explicit, application-level locking strategy to prevent the same file from being processed more than once.

Reviewer: Recommend shortening this sentence so that it's 32 words or fewer.

> For example, if multiple programs process files in the same shared directory by reading, modifying, and then deleting them, these programs must use an explicit, application-level locking strategy to prevent the same file from being processed more than once.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, multiple programs might process files in the same shared directory by reading, modifying, and then deleting them. In this case, the programs must use an explicit, application-level locking strategy to prevent the same file from being processed more than once.
```
